Add new gall guide. (#1249)
urbit/urbit.org: content/docs/userspace/gall-guide/11-fail.md

stack trace, and often with additional messages about the error. If it weren't
delegated to `on-fail:def`, it would begin with:

```hoon
++  on-fail
  |=  [=term =tang]
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  ....
```

Gall calls `on-fail` in four cases:

- When there's a crash in the `on-arvo` arm.
- When there's a crash in the `on-agent` arm.
- When there's a crash in the `on-leave` arm.
- When an agent produces a `%watch` card but the `wire`, ship, agent and `path`
  specified are the same as an existing subscription.

For an `on-arvo` failure, the `term` will always be `%arvo-response`, and the
`tang` will contain a stack trace.

For `on-agent`, the `term` will be the head of the `sign` (`%poke-ack`, `%fact`,
etc). The `tang` will contain a stack trace and a message of "closing
subscription".

For an `on-leave` failure, the `term` will always be `%leave`, and the `tang`
will contain a stack trace.

For a `%watch` failure, the `term` will be `%watch-not-unique`. The `tang` will
include a message of "subscribe wire not unique", as well as the agent name, the
`wire`, the target ship and the target agent.

How you might handle these cases (if you wanted to manually handle them) depends

> on the logic of your particular agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the purpose of your particular agent.
```

## Helper core

Back in the lesson on lustar virtual arms, we briefly mentioned a common pattern

> is to define an alias of `hc` for a "helper core" like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is to define a deferred expression for a helper core named `hc` like:
```

```hoon
+*  this  .
    def   ~(. (default-agent this %.n) bowl)
    hc    ~(. +> bowl)
```

> A helper core is a separate core composed into the subject of the agent core,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name `do` is also used frequently besides `hc`.

A helper core is a separate core composed into the subject of the agent core,
```

containing useful functions for use by the agent arms. Such a helper core would
typically contain functions that would only ever be used internally by the
agent - more general functions would usually be included in a separate `/lib`
library and imported with a [faslus](/docs/arvo/ford/ford#ford-runes) (`/+`)
rune.

The conventional pattern is to have the helper core _below_ the agent core, so the structure of the agent file is like:

```
[imports]
[state types core]
[agent core]
[helper core]
```

Recall that the build system will implicitly compose any discrete expressions.
If we simply added the helper core below the agent core, the agent core would be
composed into the subject of the helper core, which is the opposite of what we
want. Instead, we must inversely compose the two cores with a
[tisgal](/docs/hoon/reference/rune/tis#-tisgal) (`=<`) rune. We add the tisgal
rune directly above the agent core like:

```hoon
.....
=<
|_  =bowl:gall
+*  this      .

>     def   ~(. (default-agent this %|) bowl)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    def   ~(. (default-agent this %.n) bowl)
```
keeping things consistent with the rest of the guide (also I prefer this over `%|`)

    hc    ~(. +> bowl)
++  on-init
.....
```

We can then add the helper core below the agent core. The helper core is most

> typically a `door` like the agent core, also with the `bowl` as its sample. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
typically a door like the agent core, also with the `bowl` as its sample. This
```

is just so any functions you define in it have ready access to the `bowl`. It
would look like:

```hoon
|_  =bowl:gall
++  some-function  ...
++  another  ....
++  etc ...
--
```

> Back in the lustar virtual arm of the agent core, we give it an alias of `hc`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Back in the lustar virtual arm of the agent core, we give it a deferred expression name of `hc`
```

and call it like so:

```hoon
hc  ~(. +>  bowl)
```

The composition will put the helper core in the tail of the tail of the agent
core's subject, so we use a [censig](/docs/hoon/reference/rune/cen#-censig)
expression to call `+>` of the subject (`.`) with the `bowl` as its sample.
After that, any agent arms can make use of helper core functions by calling them
like `(some-function:hc ....)`.

> 

Reviewer: I think it would also make sense to mention the use of `|^` inside of agent core arms as well. I think the convention is roughly that if the arm is only used by one of the agent arms, use `|^`. If you have an arm that multiple agent arms will use, put it in the helper core. Though I'd also say that any particularly heavy arm belongs in the helper core, even if it isn't used by more than one agent arm, but I don't know whether everybody does that.

## Summary

- `on-fail` is called in certain cases of crashes or failures.
- Crashes in the `on-agent`, `on-arvo`, or `on-watch` arms will trigger a call
  to `on-fail`.
- A non-unique `%watch` `card` will also trigger a call to `on-fail`.
- `on-fail` is seldom used - most agents just leave it to `%default-agent` to
  handle, which just prints the error to the terminal.
- A helper core is an extra core of useful functions, composed into the subject
  of the agent core.
- Helper cores are typically placed below the agent core, and composed with a
  tisgal (`=<`) rune.

> - The helper core is typically a `door` with the `bowl` as a sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The helper core is typically a door with the `bowl` as a sample.
```

> - The helper core is typically given an alias of `hc` in the lustar virtual arm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The helper core is typically given a name of `hc` or `do` in the lustar virtual arm
```

When crashes or errors occur in certain cases, Gall passes them to an agent's
`on-fail` arm for handling. This arm is very seldom used, almost all agents
leave it for `default-agent` to handle, which just prints the error message to
the terminal. While you're unlikely to use this arm, we'll briefly go over its
behavior for completeness.

`on-fail` takes a `term` error message and a `tang`, typically containing a
stack trace, and often with additional messages about the error. If it weren't
delegated to `on-fail:def`, it would begin with:

```hoon
++  on-fail
  |=  [=term =tang]
  ^-  (quip card _this)
  ....
```

Gall calls `on-fail` in four cases:

- When there's a crash in the `on-arvo` arm.
- When there's a crash in the `on-agent` arm.
- When there's a crash in the `on-leave` arm.
- When an agent produces a `%watch` card but the `wire`, ship, agent and `path`
  specified are the same as an existing subscription.

For an `on-arvo` failure, the `term` will always be `%arvo-response`, and the
`tang` will contain a stack trace.

For `on-agent`, the `term` will be the head of the `sign` (`%poke-ack`, `%fact`,
etc). The `tang` will contain a stack trace and a message of "closing

> subscription".

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't expect the stack trace to contain that in the case for `%poke-ack`, right?

Author: you wouldn't expect it but that's what the Gall source code said when I checked it. I just tested to confirm and it does in fact print "closing subscription" on any failed sign including poke-ack

Reviewer 2: Hah, that's probably a gall bug then. Good catch!

For an `on-leave` failure, the `term` will always be `%leave`, and the `tang`
will contain a stack trace.

For a `%watch` failure, the `term` will be `%watch-not-unique`. The `tang` will
include a message of "subscribe wire not unique", as well as the agent name, the
`wire`, the target ship and the target agent.

How you might handle these cases (if you wanted to manually handle them) depends
on the purpose of your particular agent.

> ## Helper core

Reviewer 2: Feels a little bit weird to have this as part of the page on `+on-fail`. Any particular reason this doesn't get its own page? ie, a "best practices for larger applications" might be nice.

Author: the on-fail bit is quite short, and it was information overload to go into helper core stuff when I introduced other stuff like that in lesson 7. It's basically that these two things alone would be a little light on information to be a lesson

```
[imports]
[state types core]
[agent core]
[helper core]
```

Recall that the build system will implicitly compose any discrete expressions.
If we simply added the helper core below the agent core, the agent core would be
composed into the subject of the helper core, which is the opposite of what we
want. Instead, we must inversely compose the two cores with a
[tisgal](/docs/hoon/reference/rune/tis#-tisgal) (`=<`) rune. We add the tisgal
rune directly above the agent core like:

```hoon
.....
=<
|_  =bowl:gall
+*  this      .
    def   ~(. (default-agent this %.n) bowl)
    hc    ~(. +> bowl)
++  on-init
.....
```

We can then add the helper core below the agent core. The helper core is most
typically a door like the agent core, also with the `bowl` as its sample. This
is just so any functions you define in it have ready access to the `bowl`. It
would look like:

```hoon
|_  =bowl:gall
++  some-function  ...
++  another  ....
++  etc ...
--
```

Back in the lustar virtual arm of the agent core, we give it a deferred expression name of `hc`
and call it like so:

```hoon
hc  ~(. +>  bowl)
```

The composition will put the helper core in the tail of the tail of the agent

> core's subject, so we use a [censig](/docs/hoon/reference/rune/cen#-censig)

Reviewer 2: Not sure this is technically correct. Directly after the `=>`, the helper core is at the _head_ of the subject. However, we want to point to that from _within_ the door, so the door and its sample are in the way. That's what `+>` traverses around.
